---
title: Topspin Tutorial
author: Zheng Huang
date: 2023-09-26
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

> 本教程基于Topspin 3.x版本，至于为什么不是4.x版本，当然是因为学校太穷买不起新机器啦（笑）

# Basic command

# Basic parameters
[AMP]  
[AQ]  
[CNST]   
CPDPRG(?)  
(DATMOD)  
[DW] 
(EXP)  
[FIDRES]  
(FnMODE)  
[NOISF1]  
[NOISF2]  
[NS]  
[NUC1]  
[O1]   
[O1P]  
[OFFSET]  
[PHC0]  
[PHC1]  
[PULPROG]  
[SFO1]  
[SI]  
[SIGF1]  
[SIGF2]  
[SINO]  
[SW]  
[SWH]  
[TD]  
[TDeff]  
(TD0)  
(TDoff)  
[VCLIST]  
[VDLIST]  
[VPLIST]  
[VTLIST]  
# Calibrations

# Experimental techniques

# 编程 (AU & Python)

## AU program (macros)


## Python programming

# 脉冲程序
## 常用的命令/参数
- `#include <filename>` or `#include “filename“`
    - import file
- ;
    - 注释  
  
- ze
    - 重置 scan counter 为 0 (在 acquisition 界面上出现的) 
    - 允许 dummy scans.
- d1,d2,...
    - delay time
- p1,p2,...
    - pulse length
- pl1,pl2,..
    - power level, corrsponding relationship (with pulse) is not fixed (depends on each program)
- ph1,ph2,...
  - phase of the pulse
- f1,f2
    - channel 1,2 ... (proton, carbon or other atoms)
- go
    - `go = label(number like 1,2,...)`
    - **loop** to the pulse program line with label number. **Repeat this until NS scans have been accumulated.**

- do
    - `do : f2`
    - switch decoupling off

## an Example
```topspin
;zgcw30
;avance-version
;1D sequence with CW decoupling
;using 30 degree flip angle

"d11=30m"
"acqt0=-p1*0.66/PI"
#include <Avance.incl>

1 ze
    d11 pl26:f2
    d11 cw:f2
2 d1
    p1*0.33 ph1
    go=2 ph31
    30m mc #0 to 2 F0(zd)
    d11 do:f2
    exit
ph1=0 2 2 0 1 3 3 1
ph31=0 2 2 0 1 3 3 1

;pl1 : f1 channel - power level for pulse (default)
;pl26: f2 channel - power level for cw/hd decoupling
;p1 : f1 channel - 90 degree high power pulse
;d1 : relaxation delay; 1-5 * T1
;d11: delay for disk I/O [30 msec]
```

## Details
### 1. ze & zd
The statements ze and zd perform the following actions:
1. They **set the scan counter**, which is **visible during real time FID display**, ==to 0 ==or to -DS. A negative value indicates that dummy scans are in progress.
2. They set a flag which triggers the next go, gonp, gosc, goscnp, or adc statement to replace any existing data in the acquisition memory rather than add to them. This counts for all NBL memory buffers. If ze or zd are placed outside an acquisition loop, the replace mode will only be valid for the first scan performed by the loop. The FID’s of all the scans that follow will be added to the data present in the memory buffer.
3. The statement zd automatically resets all phase program pointers to the first element, whereas the statement **ze sets all phase program pointers such that they are at the first element after DS dummy scans**.
4. The difference between ze and zd is that **zd prevents the execution of dummy scans** by go, gonp, gosc, goscnp, and by adc (combined with rcyc or eosc), even if DS > 0.
   The statements ze and zd can be written behind a delay statement. They are then executed during the delay. If they are not specified with a delay their execution will require 3 ms.
   The statement zd is normally part of one of the specifications of the mc macro statement.
   One example where it is specified explicitly is the pulse program selno.


